Together with her older sister she was brought up by her grandparents in Deutsch-Wagram, whilst her parents lived only a few miles away in Aderklaa, the neighbouring village.
The story goes, that her mother could not lift her arms (and was consequently quite unable to look after children) without dislocating her shoulders.
As a young girl, she often had to go and buy meat at a local butcher's, who had a giant St. Bernard dog on a chain. ONe day the beast got loose and attacked her so severely
that she would have been killed, had the butcher not gone in between. Her love of dogs arising from this trauma was passed on through the coming generations.
Her sister was allowed to study and became a school teacher, but for the younger sibling was no money left and she had to work in the post office of her granddad.
However, when her older sister found a cool (but bold) piano player at a student's den, she finally got the better of her sister and married the guy.
They had a daughter in 1938, but the father had to go to war shortly after that, whilst she had to flee some 4 years later from the Russians to her sister, who was a teacher
in Bavaria at this time. After the war had ended and her husband had finally be release as a war prisoner the family settled in Deutsch-Wagram, where her mother lived as a widow by now.
The an accident happended and a second child was born in 1949 - a boy. In the mid Fifties the family moved to Vienna where they lived in several different districts over the time.
She was a housewif all her life and spent most of her energy bringing up her children and running a solid upper middle class household fit for her husband, who had agood job in
the local government of Lower Austria. After the children had left the house, she moved again to Deutsch-Wagram, where she engaged heavily in various church activities. AFter her husband
had died in 1993 she started to travel extensively with her daughter to India, China, Russia and many more places. Eventually, she started to suffer from dementia and moved into an old peoples home
near Schönbrunn in Vienna, where she lived - otherwise healthily - to her peaceful death. 
